[Music]
[Applause]
Wow you're a good dancer it seems like
you really love fruits but did you know
that in the future we may not have any
fruits in fact we may not have any food
at all yes you're right no fruits no
food now one question do you know where
all fruits and food come from you're
right all food comes from plants but do
you know where plants grow you're right
plants grow on our planet Earth on the
Earth's crust but did you know we're not
able to grow plants everywhere on the
Earth's surface the area where we can
grow fruit is very very limited okay you
don't believe me let's use that apple
and knife as an example think of the
Apple as the planet Earth now can you
tell me how much of the earth is covered
with water yes you're right if we cut
the earth apple in four parts three of
those parts would be water so we can't
grow any food plants there so only
one-fourth of the earth there is land
but again we can't use all the remaining
land not covered by water to grow food
either do you know why you're right on
half of this available land we have
mountains deserts and ice so we can't
grow any plants for food there so let's
cut this piece of Apple into two parts
now we're only left with an eighth part
of an Apple hmm one eighth part of the
earth now on this part we have cities
buildings roads and a place to grow
plants for food did you know that only
one-fourth of this part is available for
growing plants you look worried so this
is the only piece of land where we can
grow our food but did you know we can
only grow food on the top soil of the
land please peel this piece so this
little piece of skin is the only place
where we can grow food you're saying we
also have that part available for
growing food for that you need to
understand
the soil profile only on top soil can we
grow plants come with me into the garden
and let's understand why only top soil
can be used for growing plants
Wow is that your rabbit that's why you
brought carrots oh it can help us here
look at the soil in this garden our soil
has four layers these layers are top
soil subsoil parent material and bedrock
can you ask your rabbit to dig a hole
for us in the soil rabbits make their
homes in the soil by digging holes they
can dig really really fast
great he is really quick I see you're
rewarding him by giving him the other
carrot now let's look at different parts
of the soil the part in which your stick
is showing is called the top soil plants
and trees grow here it is very rich in
nutrients which are good for plant
growth it also contains lots of worms
which are helpful for plants the upper
part is called the houmous which has a
lot of dead leaves and dead animals
these dead leaves and animals are slowly
decaying with the help of soil bacteria
this process helps form organic
nutrients which are necessary for plants
to grow this part is called subsoil and
has small particles of rock this part is
called parent material these are the
parents rocks which get broken down
slowly and become smaller and smaller to
form the soil so this is the part in
which the parents of topsoil and subsoil
live aha these are big rocks these big
rocks are kind of grandparents of the
soil they break down and form the parent
material then the parents rocks break
down due to the pressure temperature and
water this is how subsoil and topsoil
are formed please uproot a plant I want
to show you something oh look it's an
earthworm don't worry they aren't
harmful earthworms are a friend of the
soil and plants okay now we have to
study in a classroom ah so now you know
why top soil is important for us as it
is the only place where we can grow food
for ourselves and other animals see what
a small portion of the earth we have for
growing food did you know that it takes
five hundred to a thousand years to get
one inch of topsoil
yes nature takes many years to make even
an inch of topsoil but did you know that
even this tiny part is in danger yes
this part is getting smaller and smaller
due to soil erosion oh you didn't know
about soil erosion it is about our top
soil getting washed or blown away by
water and wind we humans are also
responsible for it we're making new
houses and roads all the time so the
area for plant life is becoming smaller
and smaller you're right the area for
plant life is becoming increasingly
smaller did you know that plants help in
stopping soil erosion
look at this on one side there are
plants and on the other side it is plain
land when rain comes plants hold the
soil so it isn't eroded on the left-hand
side on the right-hand side there are no
plants or trees so the land is getting
eroded so we see plants are very
important in preventing soil erosion
so you see plants are very important
they not only give us food clothes and
many other things but they also save our
soil from being eroded but we humans are
cutting down trees without planting new
ones we're putting more animals to graze
in small areas so the protective layer
of the earth is decreasing let's go to
the laboratory and see an experiment on
how plants help in decreasing soil
erosion so let's put water in both of
these so we saw today that plants and
trees are very important for us if we
don't save them then more soil erosion
will occur and the area for plant growth
will become smaller and smaller I hope
everybody understands that we need to
plant more trees and should avoid
cutting them down otherwise there won't
be any soil left for drawing food here's
an interesting question for you did you
know that natural erosion is good for
the earth confused check out the video
on weathering and erosion on wwm ake me
genius.com
to understand how erosion shapes our
world